Lecture 1 ECE657Sun, May 01, 2022 4:22PM ¥ 2:35:21SUMMARY KEYWORDSintelligent, question, machine, system, lecture, problem, exam, intelligence, ai, students, material, solve, quiz, algorithms, humans, input, understand, assignments, utility, perceivedOkay, so we are now being recorded, we'd have to run everyone. This is the first and only synchronous session this term. I made a note and I did that last year as well, I made the point of having the first session to be online synchronous, just for the students, that the A myself to come together in one space. To have a q&a, I'll present how the I think the class will look like moving forward evaluation. And give you folks the opportunity to ask questions, the man explanation and maybe change some of the ideas they have about the course. Once Once this is done, once we are once this is done, we'll move into a synchronous class on learning, or asynchronous model learning where I would be recording the lectures. First, I'll upload them to UW learn. And then we'll come to a discussion session, that's going to last an hour, an hour and a half. That one is not going to be recorded, because the intent for it is for people to make an effort to show up. And it's going to be just a discussion about the materials that had been uploaded. You could ask questions, inquire about that lecture or the lecture that had just been uploaded or anything before that. And that's why I call them discussion sessions. But the core material would be pre recorded and uploaded. So anything that has any announcement, anything official that would be in the pre recording material are posted on there. So if you choose to miss any of the discussion sessions, you will be missing something, obviously, since we're having a discussion, but nothing with them. There will be no new information presented. No announcements made during those sessions. Oh, so that's the the format I envision moving forward. I've had the same format last year for two courses. And I venture to say most of which were quite successful in terms of delivering the material soliciting engagement from students. And I think overall satisfaction was was acceptable. Is there any questions so far, you can jump in you can type questions. Whatever makes you happy. And well, this session be uploaded as well being recorded. So this session is going to be uploaded, obviously. There's Yes, I have one query, actually, regarding the asynchronous sessions. Will they be on this platform? The same platform? Yes. Or do you mean? You mean the recorded lecture or do you mean, the online session? Not the pre recorded sessions? No, no, I'll upload them again. So I usually use WebEx to record my lectures. I use this one first. I downloaded it last time. It was very, like, there was a picture that was the voice was weird. So since then, I started using WebEx, it doesn't really matter, because I will be uploading an mp4 file. So for all intents and purposes, you're actually download the video. Okay, thank you. Does that answer your question? Yes, Adam. What will be the timing for discussion sessions? The timing has been announced in email. It would be Wednesday, from six to 736 to 767 30 against the discussion session, so It could go to be one hour and a half, maybe more. We start at six anyways. Can the time schedule to be changed? Yeah, I have no commitment to anything per se. If you if you'd like I'll post a survey and see which one works. I don't want it to be early on within the I don't want it to be at the beginning of the week because I will be uploading my lectures on Saturday and Sunday. So I would like to have for you guys do have some time to have some time to review the material and prepare questions. So as you go through the possibilities, keep in mind that you need time to go through the material will there be a discussion platform like Piazza Yes, or we'll have we'll have a piazza discussion room. That's what they call it and everyone will be invited to it please also upload the lectures YouTube to it will be easy for others to access I do not upload my lectures to YouTube The lectures will be uploaded to UW learn actually believe uploading it to learn better, because you could take your time downloading it if you guys have concerns about the size, I can always compress the file I do compress the file as a matter of fact, so I'll upload the compressed file and you guys could download and depends was your internet connection you could just let it download and once done, you could watch it at your leisure over and over and over. It means once you download it means you do not have to be online to watch it. So does not mandate the existence of the internet. Beyond the period where you actually download the material after that you can be offline you could put to noon if you have a tablet you could put your tablet you could put in your phone whatever you want to do alright as long as you have the download file okay, it would be good if the lectures can be that one is on percent it means you can also okay you will read okay can we change the timings of the line discussion sessions for the ones living in India the timing of falling on 3:30am I will Mojito could we figure out a survey where we have several times I don't know what time works best. We I mean just see what what are the possibilities right because I know different students live within different time zones. Maybe we can have a poll and students can decide Yeah, yeah. Yeah, because there are multiple I've been receiving that different time zones and I'm like I think we'll have to we'll have to figure out which one that works best for everyone. But I am aware that stuff 330 and stuff no doubt. There is no option of playing the video lectures high speed of course there is an option you just need to learn how to navigate your video player. Absolutely. One student told me that they don't recognize virtually every video player does that lost their mind. One student told me that they don't like to hear my voice. It was not 1.5x Um but I am very much averse to submitting the material on YouTube. YouTube is a public platform so Changi is saying Mmm, I'm sorry I missed, do we have Piazza discussions, we are going to be opening the piazza discussions. Mohit and I had yet have yet to meet and arrange for the logistics of the course. But we are going to have Piazza discussions, we are going to have lots of things. But I'll have also to drop the Code of Conduct when it comes to Piazza discussions. For example, you cannot discuss assignments solutions to assignments in Piazza discuss your plan we have, we already have two exams, we discussing the exams pre post or within the exam on Piazza. So it's gonna be more like a public square, in which we will discuss the course, but not the delivery not cooperate on deliverables. Especially they are have been designated to be an individual effort or a designated group effort. Okay. So as I said, today is going to be the only synchronous lecture we are not going to be taking I don't believe we are going to be taking a break today, which is going to go for two hours and a half. And we'll we'll break at at 8pm is Eastern time. I'm not sure if it is a steal. And after that, everything is going to be recorded. Okay, so there's a few housekeeping items that I'd like to start with. And then we'll go into a little bit of the material. Your instructor is me. My name is Haitham Amar. I've been to this is my third time. So the lecture would be around two hours of recorded material. It varies like I usually say it's two hours, sometimes a little bit more than two hours, sometimes it's a little bit less than two hours. From what I've seen last term, they are a little bit over two hours. So which if you convert it to a live session format, it's funny enough, it converts to around 3.5 or four hours. But there is no interruption when you're cold, right. Anyways, your instructor is going to be me. My name is Haitham Amar. This is the third time I teach this course or the third term, I teach this course, the second time I teach it online. So I'm um, there are a few learnings that have occurred with me over the past that they had applied in this particular chair, those learnings, basically on the assessment criteria, in light of the challenges that we've had last in particular, but even the term before all material are going to be uploaded to learn. Piazza again is a platform for communication, nothing that is going to be only there. So I will not be uploading, I can upload the material in many places. But do expect that the single source of truth that you repository for the course is going to be UW learn. This way, you don't have to go to many platforms to find a crucial piece of information. Announcements, the announcements are going to be sent via email. I mean, if I feel like it, they are going to be sent via email. But any email that goes it will be also an announcement on UW Law. And this way, if your email goes to spam, if whatever happens, there is a copy that you can actually consult to the format as I had said earlier is going to be an asynchronous format. So a lecture that is pre recorded, uploaded and then And welcome, welcome to a discussion that should your stay is is Mojito children. Today I collected right. Because the reason why I wanted to correct is because God is also proper last name. So anyways, obviously this is, these are interesting times in a sense. It's online, so there's no actual office hours. There's no actual office. But obviously we'd like to help you. And we'd like to be available for you as much as possible, as much as needed. Please be mindful, also the time of the TA, but anywho, you could trade you need to arrange some time for. For support, you could email monitoring, and men should be able to, to support you. But please, please do be mindful of the time that is booked, okay. Alternatively, if it turns out that there are a lot of incoming traffic of students asking questions, we may end up generating a whole nother set of virtual classrooms, well, that would be the office hours. Okay. But for now, let's make it on a need basis as as pair just just in the new male Salesforce registration waiting list, I think everyone here is registered. That's the only way you could actually get this lecture. But if you registered and you're considering halting this course has been historically known for not allowing students to audit. The main reason it's very demanding on the TAs, as a matter of fact, fact last time, we barely met the due date to submit the marks because it is we're working day and night to go over the marking. So it's just it just takes a lot of time. Like to keep that effort dedicated to the registered students. We have 140 registered students. We do have a waiting list. And we have students on the waiting list. I know at least 10 or 15 students. So take a look. Listen to what they have to say. And see if you like what you're hearing. And if this is in line with what you want, in your research trajectory or your degree requirements, and you want to keep the course in please, by all means stay. But if you want to drop it, you don't have to wait up until the last moment. There are other students who wants to take the score. So let's be mindful that again. That is if you want to drop it and you're just waiting. Lots of most of our communications are most all of the communications are going to be on learn. Do enable your email notification, use the message boards, check religiously on it, just see there so you didn't miss anything. If you need anything done, email me or email me later. Don't shy away from sending any communication. As a matter of fact, we I am known for missing stuff. So I rely on you folks on on or being the driver for the course accidents. So I am never bothered. If anything is missing, if anything is not in the right format. do email me I'll meet I'll take care of it. So how's the course going to be evaluated? Well, we have a few blocks for evaluation. We have assignments. They constitute around 40% of the marks. There will be three or four, I don't have a doubt of how many I have, will be maybe challenged by one to roll them out. So we'll see how it goes depends also on the pace of the lectures. But there will be three or 4am leaning that there are going to be four assignments. But we'll see how, like if time permits, obviously. Anyways, collectively, they will constitute around 40% of the marks. In the past, it was an individual effort that that that had proven to be challenging for the TAs to mark could imagine marking 140 assignments every other week. So this term, I made it a group work and the maximum size of the group is three, I have already created the groups, you could go there and self overall. Once we create the piazza space, you could go there, see, who do you want to report, you can post announcements there saying Hey, who wants to partner up with me, your work is going to be only for the assignments. So if you like a group, when it comes to distributing the effort, great. There are no strings attached beyond the assignments. And obviously, in in the middle of the term, if one switch groups, for whatever reasons, we will be accommodating of that. Okay, so you didn't have to feel stuck. If things did not be different from your expectations. Causes, we are going to have a quiz virtually every lecture week. So the term is around 13 weeks, we have today there is not going to have any quiz today. We have two weeks that are going to be for the exams, there will be no lectures, no quizzes there. And they're all going to have 10 sold weeks of material. In those 10 weeks, we're going to have 10 quizzes, the quizzes together constitute around 10% In the month. So why do we have the quizzes? Well, we have the quizzes to make sure that you folks are engaged. And again, we are going to be sending a survey gauging what is the best time for the quiz. Mohit, I can also include because it's going to be an automated quiz. You can include anytime from eight a m. and include also weekends and see what most people want to do. So there are less it's less challenging in terms of what time is a quiz. So anyways, the goal beyond the quiz is to first keep you engaged with the material. keep you interested in knowing what's going on and learning about it. To train you to use the online platform when it comes to the exercises. So you know some people have mentioned that they haven't they haven't had the experience, you know going to UW learn an answer an N an exam and submitted answers. So the quizzes are there for for training purposes. Also, to give you a sense of what the questions will look like, in the first and the second exams, it just a sense of what again look like obviously, I'm not gonna be repeating my questions. But it's think of it as an as an as an online preparation for for the for the exams. So a question we're having is can the assignments be also worked upon individually, you have a choice, you always have a choice. You could work individually, you could work in a group, you don't that your choice end at a group of three people. So that's that's the, the extent to which you could work with others. So a group of one is still a group and a group of three is a group it's a choice you need to make If you can't find a partner who will do everything in our power powers to pair you up with others, but if you choose not to pair up then who are we to say? No? Will there be lecture and quiz during the reading week? Do we have a summer reading week? An idea No, I don't think there is because it ends early. There's only like the course only goes to like the first week of August so it's like shorter than most most terms No, I'd venture to say even full doesn't have anything week for the graduate students only winter has everything week. All the winter has anything week that occurs. Oh, for graduate students. Oh, you guys, you guys have autumn look. Please, when I was a student, we had a reading week only info. I teach in winter and summer. So other than my experience as a student, I didn't have experience with a fall has a reading week a lot. Will there be lecture during the reading week we just establish there is no reading week, or there wouldn't be a reading week are the quizzes at the end of the discussion lecture. Or just scheduled after it? Originally they were scheduled after it. But we'll roll out a survey. I'll see how it goes. All the quiz be during the session the election. These session the election. Again, we're going to send you get we're going to be sending a a survey. Whatever you folks agree to all just we'll just do we'll just abide with no, just to clear up with a request video discussion? No. You can do it. No, no, no. That's us. It's gonna be on learn. So as long as you have an internet, and you're able to access, learn during the period of time that's dedicated for the quiz, then you can do the quiz. So the quiz is going to be limited, it has a start and end date for 30 minutes. Within the first 30 minutes, you're going to have a quiz that is 10 minutes. So as long as you're available for 30 minutes, you should be able to do the quiz. And the reason why I'm limiting it to 30 minutes of period is basically it's a very simple quiz. And the questions are fairly easy anyone. I want our limit the cooperation between the students so I didn't have much options to be quite honest, I can just make it up in quiz any question? Exams we are going to have two exams. I know in the course outline, I said final, it isn't final, it's a second exam. And 13 minutes be extended because he will reverse the lecture videos at different times. While I assume everyone will go through the lecture, by the at least within 48 hours, or 72 hours from their release. Think of it as a lecture time. So if we had the original arrangement, ie where the course will be Tuesday and Thursday, or Tuesday or Friday, a lecture will be given Tuesday and lecture will be given Thursday and you have a quiz at the end of Thursday. Right? Like if you were in person, so I'm going to I'm not obviously going to throw the quiz right on the lecture day, or the day after or the day after. We'll keep a buffer time between the material tested and the material rolled out. In the past I tried my best that the quiz doesn't cover the most recent theories material. So that gives you Some solids, that was an arrangement that I've done in the past where the quiz covered a week old material. I'm coming to your point charming. So two exams first and second. So the first will cover the first half of material, the second will cover the second half of the material. So there will be no overlap. So that's why I'm saying, I know I said final. But that was, that was a mistake, it should be called a second exam. Both of which are each of which constitute around 25% of the mark. The obviously going to be one hour and a half, 90 minutes 60 to 90 minutes, we'll have to figure out the duration based on the complexity and the expected length of the questions. So far, I've made a determination that the exams will fall within the normal course hours. So if you go to the course schedule, you will see that we have we have time that is booked for the course. It's from 1130 to one on two days of the week. So I am just to make sure that we didn't end up with disputes and timing issues and stuff. And whatever, I lean heavily that excels will fall within the already predetermined times for for the course. And those times happen to be suitable also for students for outside of Canada, unless we have more than 12 hours difference, in which case, it would be very tough for them. But anyone within anyone within you know six to 12 hours should be able to six I mean, pre or six after it find the time within the reach, because it's going to be in the morning, Eastern Time. That means afternoon or evening outside of Canada if you're off to the east. Any question? As a graduate course, can it accommodate any project work in the course. So the course in the past had a presentation and narrative paper. The challenge we're facing right now is straight up. Presentation there's I didn't find a proper way of doing presentation like advanced screens in the past to submit the presentations. This is proven to be cumbersome for them. I mean, not in UW in other programs that they're teaching with little benefit to the students because you're not getting a little real life feedback. No one is challenging your statements. As for the reports, the problem is marking. We'd like to go and read the reports in detail at this point with 140 students, whether it's individual effort or group effort, your token is talking about 60 or 70 papers to read and Mark and that is that is not going to be easy. So usually in large courses we didn't do a lot of research work unfortunately. So alternatively, we we did the present we're doing the assignments and the assignments you'll be asked to to prove stuff or research. That's somehow an alternative to the course project. But I understand they're not within the same link. Any other question? Does this course relate to Eazy E 657? A? If yes. How is it more theoretical? Well, last summer I taught the two courses in parallel. And I had to I had students who attended both both classes with me and the risk of sounding philosophy go any AI or machine learning course, is related the other courses of the same field. Just it right, it cannot be teaching, there is no course that has a unique material of its own. There is no graduate level course when it comes to AI that has a unique material of its own. However, in the world, as I was working over a C 657, and EC 6578, I tried my best to create a clear distinction between the two courses. So is the 6578 goes in goes deep. In deep learning, like it's really goes deep, like the first part has a lot to do with data. So you have data, you have data cleaning, formatting, then you're talking about the different data management approaches, you're talking about different dimensionality reduction techniques, PCA is LDA is ice maps, and so on and so forth. You have clustering as well, that I don't teach any of that in this course. Not in detail. What we teach in this course, is tools of intelligence system design, which means we will go as broad as gets to cover many, many areas. So we'll be covering soft computing, we'll be covering neural networks, we'll be covering different classifiers, we'll be covering different classes of neural networks and other networks. Right, there are things that are unique to this course. We'll be also covering fuzzy systems, I am not aware of any other course that covers fuzzy systems that are very much in use in the industry. It just they haven't didn't have the the fanfare that it is, we'll be covering evolutionary computing as well, which I am not aware of them being covered in other courses in ECE. Maybe they are maybe they aren't. So do we need to know the basics from 6657? A, that will be required for six or seven? No, I just mentioned that I had students who are taking the two courses, or taking the two courses and same time. And that was okay. The major overlap happens to be in neural networks. Because I mean, in my version of the two courses, because when I teach neural networks, like I have one certain way of teaching your network, and I this is how I present the material anyways, other than that the overlap is pretty much diminished. So to answer your question, no, you don't need to know the basics from 657. And if anything comes as a basic, I will just cover it regardless. So if if I'm teaching a subject and the subject has clustering in it, as as an example, I'll just go and explain how plus one plus one work. Like in 1015 minutes, the online format allows me to do these things, right, because they do have control over time. So don't worry about dependency. On other AI and machine learning courses. I'll I'll make sure that I cover all the bases. And you guys could give a feedback and say, Hey, we didn't understand this. Can you please expand on the next lecture? I'll record that what background is recommended for this course? Well, this course is in AI and machine learning course. So it requires it requires the ability to understand various mathematical concepts I mean, you know, the calculus of matrices, for example. So you should be able to understand when I talk about mathematical concepts or be able to go and research and understand what you're looking for this is very beneficial to understand how the algorithms are designed and they operate. What textbooks should we refer for to for each section of the course I attached the book Many textbooks in the course outline, I suggest that you go and review you review them. Professor, would you also cover the math behind the algorithms? Yes, I will be covering the math behind the algorithms. So I will be covering the math behind the algorithms, how they operate. And again, I don't assume any prior knowledge. So sometimes you might find the lecture to be quite boring, because you do understand the the basic concept of stuff. But if can always skip that part. I'll make sure to cover it for those who, whose whose exposure to all the subject happens to be this course at the very beginning. So I always assume that what I'm saying people hear it for the first time might be an easy assumption, but it usually pays for well. Any other question? All those proofs, proofs of algorithms, we asked in the exams? It's an online it's an online exam. So the answer is quite obvious. You never say never. But I didn't expect you guys to be deriving mathematical formulations. Using learn what prior knowledge is required. First see 657 Piazza created not yet we'll we'll create it over the weekend. And then we'll connect you folks and let you know. What is what's fried knowledge is required will prognosis squad, this is a graduate course. So you have the prior, I assume that you know you have the prior knowledge for for the actual program. This course is not any different, apart from Python, nor do we need to have knowledge of other programming languages. I'll come to that. If you guys have any question about the exams, I'd like to go to the next slide. That covers the background. So is the 650 or covenant is strongly recommended? Most of you have that taken the 660 What if you're comfortable with programming and you know, the infrastructures and what have you in this great math and linear algebra, you know, sets matrices transpose, cross product dot product matrix multiplication, you know, solving system of linear equations. Programming, you should be comfortable with programming. This is essential. I'm not, it's nothing to talk about the language, you should be comfortable with writing code. You're not a developer, but assignments will have will have lots of programming. So you should be comfortable with doing so. Writing and presenting. This is an this is an outdated, outdated slide. Up until recently. We will debate debating whether we have broad projects or not. So as long as you're comfortable with the general writing and submitting your assignments, I'll be happy with what you have probability and stat. It's not required. Anything that comes that I think needs explaining, I'll explain it. But obviously, it would help if you folks do your own individual reading. Course Resources, I do not have a website. So for that, see computing resources pages, the page on those sites, your web site, like they have different resources there. You could use whatever there none of the times will expect you to be to require heavy processing powers. So a personal computer is more than enough. But if you feel that you need more, there are more. There are resources that the university make available for you folks Are these are examples of other common resources out there? In case you want to have more exposure to machine learning problems, codes, and so on, and so forth. Only one tool, not tools is needed for this course. And that is Python. So I do expect you when you do your assignments, to use Python for programming, it is the de facto AI machine learning language. If you're seeking, if you're doing research, lots of tools that have to do with it have to do with AI machine learning are almost exclusive on Python, are done in a really good way on Python. There's a huge community support to it, it's a free. Also, if you're trying to find a job. No, there's no logic for the exams. This is this is an outdated slide I'll make sure to clean this up and reupload. If you're seeking employment, then the de facto tool that you will be tested on with the Python and maybe with SQL. But Python is pivotal. This area field a big learning with this research or, or employment. Scope and structure the course is useful for graduate students in virtually all areas of engineering. Especially if you're dealing with complex systems, or processes. A form of background can be useful in fuzzy logic and artificial neural networks. You don't have to have that background. If you do it to create if you don't have coverage, when you have two major parts, the first part has to do with again, this is outdated. Now the cost structure is two halves, the first half will be dedicated to new to connectionist models. So neural network deep learning different sorts of networks RBF sanitario. And the second half will be involving fuzzy inference systems and evolutionary computing 70% of the material will be about connection connections, more models, and the other 30% will supplant the fuzzy inference systems and evolutionary computing. Any questions so far before we get into the meat of this course we can't have a wonderful an exam. So the exam will be extremely fixed. So we are not we're not going to be able to allow for a window we'll try to find the desk timezone. That works for everyone. But we'll have to we'll have to, we'll have to be mindful of the the majority of us. Obviously, I cannot be creating a large number of exams. And therefore, I cannot be doing a window. I tried to do a take home exam last term 46578 When I gave windows 24 hours, that did not end up well. Most students have complained it was difficult to a stressful and you know, being committed to an exam for 24 hours as you might appreciate isn't the most enjoyable experiences. So the exam time is going to be fixed. HIePRO so I'm not asking but like a 24 hour window for the entire exam was just saying that if we can have that window for starting the exam, I mean the exam will have to fix timing of use it like 90 minutes or so. But if we can have a window in this day I understand. I understand. So let's say the window is between nine 9am and 9pm. Right? Yeah. Okay, you take it at 9am, and someone else takes it at 3pm. Right? It's going to be the same exam. So I cannot be rolling along the exam to be rolled out over 12 hours. You can see how that logistically wouldn't be working right? Otherwise, otherwise, I'd have to design 12 exams to make sure that the questions aren't being shared from Thank, you know, as being a beginner to AI and machine learning, it's suggested to take both together in the same term, what are the both just ticking the center, I feel that would be too much of a load a high dosage of this game subject. And it was 657 A's offered twice a year. So you really didn't have to do that, right? If you started in winter, then you take six 570, naturally, you started in summer, of course, you can take it it's offered. If you want to hold until the other winter, then that's fine as well. But there is no connection. In the 2%. There is no dependency between the two courses, that makes it advisable to take both in the same time. Other than maybe having a high dosage of the same subject. And also be worried that you might confuse yourself, because sometimes concepts or concepts are explained differently. So maybe to a fault of the way I explained stuff or the way things are received, you may end up confused because there is no confusion. So be wary of that one. So last time, I taught both courses. Of course, when I teach both courses I speak I in my mind, I speak to two different audiences. And sometimes my statements had been perceived to be contradictory. They weren't. But again, students had to juggle the two courses like they aren't 657 talking to me, and they're bringing 6578 I don't think they had fun. Any other question? Okay. We will still have support to deal with situations like blackout, of course. Of course. You can, you can bet on if you lose access, we can see that the student had lost access to the exam. Because part of the stats, I get to learn how much time a person spent in the exam. So obviously, if something goes wrong, obviously with you helping you out and that's, that's a given, I wouldn't be worried about that. Doesn't, I'm just going to create another exam for you. That's fine. So again, these are tough times. We need to be mindful of each other, we need to be helpful with each other. And then you know, we'll see how it goes. But I do expect mutual support. Okay, artificial intelligence. So the course is name tools, artificial intelligence, or intelligent systems. And you will be asked about what's AI? A lot of people are confused what the heck is AI? Right? And their confusion happens to be like AI is seen as, you know, image recognition. That's AI, voice detection, that's AI but that's a subset of the field. So, instead of defining a field by fames applications of it, which is the pitfall that most people happen, you know. following week on fi artificial intelligence as it is, so again, it is not It's most famous features, it's a body of collective algorithms and research and conventional wisdom. So, AI is basically algorithms enabled by constraints exposed by representations that support models that are targeted at thinking perception and action. Again, algorithms are talking about sets of algorithms enabled by constraints exposed by representations and that support models and are targeted at thinking perception and action. So, without a loss of generality, intelligent system is one that generates hypotheses and test so, any system that falls within this range of generating hypotheses and test them is in our book a an intelligent system right. So, so, AI models that targets thinking the target perception the target action can explain the past should be able to understand the present and predict the future right to build a model that is constrained, that is represented fairly well. And it is targeted at thinking perception and action, those models should be able to functionally speaking, to understand to explain the past what's happened to understand the current present, right. And to be able to predict the future, you know, you understand it's an obstacle, you predict you can hit it and therefore, the action is to avoid sorry, if you are able to properly think perceive and then make a prudent or an intelligent action so, so, it's all about representation, right? If you think of it if you're building an algorithm to solve to solve a problem, well the first question would be What is the problem right, what are you trying to solve for? Okay, so, you have to define the problem, how to present it, the problem is that I would like to be able to recognize stop signs, okay. Then I will be representing input as matrices of numbers. Alright, so, okay, that's a representation of source. Okay. So in essence, you need to define and understand your problem. So once you have that representation in place, in it to be able to say okay, what do I need not to solve? Again, it's a car, turn around perceiving the environment. I want to limit the search area, limiting the search it means I don't care for anything that is on the side way. So I don't care for obstacle there. So you limit your surgery I'm not too worried about small rocks, you know, pebbles and what have you. Right, which means you need to have an objective. So what are you trying to do? Trying to avoid obstacles? Okay. Maya objective is to always have at least five meters between me and any obstacle. So, you okay? Now, now you have defined your objective, you need also to define what are the things that are going to be preventing you from from reaching, you will go. So, once you have all that understanding, you should be able to devise an algorithm. So, we said AI is about thinking, perception and action and thinking and perception is basically how to perceive the environmental interpreted how to understand it, how to argue objective functions and constraints. And then based on all that you have, you have a set of actions to choose one of them and to act on it. Once we've done that, we will need to define what are the intelligence systems? Well, the intelligence systems are artificial entities involving a mix of software and hardware. They have the capacity to acquire and apply knowledge in an intelligent manner. So, they're smart. Which means when they perceive an instance, they do understand it, they do absorb it. And obviously, they do act based on their understanding and absorption. And they make a decision. It is a mix of software and hardware software, the way with which you're making this reasoning, the hardware is the way that you are able to act. And also, and this is very important. You should be able to act on incomplete information. So the system is imperfect. The system doesn't assume a perfection of the input. It's as a matter of fact, it is as a matter of fact design to handle imperfections. That's the system. If you aren't able to create something like that, then you have intelligent system. And the question. Yes, okay. So, can I say like, for example, if there is a camera with AI capabilities of identifying humans, is that an intelligent system? So let's actually, let's deconstruct, let's deconstruct what you just said. You said, if there is an AI cam, there is a camera with AI capabilities. Yeah, and it can detect humans. Okay, so what do you mean, but what do you mean by that? Let me break it down. So the camera perceives, right, it takes pictures. So it perceives things objects, people obviously, then that perception is observed. You know, you convert an image into an array of numbers, then you have an algorithm. And that algorithm processes, the inputs. That's, that is not the matrix of numbers. Add classified into human Anil? Yes. Right. So this is a hardware. That's the camera is the software that sits behind that actually makes sense of the of the input. If you have both of these things in place, then yes, you have a is an intelligent system on the same camera, with AI capabilities, cameras, just the hardware that captures the camera, the software, and the way they interact together. That's Intelligent System. System of components. Thank you. Alright. Yeah, any other question? Any other question? Hi, Professor, a quick one. In this course, are we only going to be talking about intelligent systems where they have some sort of internal world model? are we limiting? Are we looking at it more from a connectionist approach? As opposed to as opposed to an activist approach where you You can have a series of interlocking systems that don't necessarily talk together talk with one another, but may produce some results well evolutionary computing is like that right? What do you have systems, you would call them that are agents or that are working towards a network manner towards the solution, right? That was one computing for example, but most existing models are connections, right? They have stage you have input stage output stage, and they are connected. And each stage serves serves a purpose. So, unless you have an example of an algorithm or something, I would I would say yes, but I'm afraid that I might be missing something. Like an example of a system that you think, belongs to the latter. Something like for example, so, like, a Boyd system would be an example, where the trajectory of a swarm of boys is, is sort of calculated dynamically, but they don't really have a good understanding of that is illusion of computing, right. Alright, so we'll talk about swarms of agents. Fair enough. All right. So that's only where I see it work. And again, the reason that they didn't talk to each other, they tried to solve the problem individually. But in doing so they're solving the, it's like someone tried to solve a small piece of the puzzle. Think of a big puzzle, and you're solving the corner of it. So as solving other corners, someone solving another corner. Eventually, it will solve the entire puzzle, right? But you're only solving for the chair or the table this guy. That's how they work. It's not just by an overall intelligent design, just make sense that you're breaking down your problems to subproblems. So as you solve your sub problems, you're solving the bigger one. So yeah, in that context, we'll be covering those most. So we're going to connect, we're going to come up with connectionist models and connection LIS models as well. But they're very confined in a very, very different set of approaches around groups. are intelligent systems only treated as a yes no, either intelligent or not? Or Are there levels to evaluate how intelligent systems let me think so let me answer this question later, later in today. Because I would like to discuss that within a larger subject in what is intelligent system. Right. So I'll answer today, but let me answer it after a few slides. Building Intelligent Systems is called AI. Is that right? Professor? Arsenal question later as well. I'd like to go into that subject. As part of what you have the introduction anyways, it's good that you guys are asking these questions, means the line means the logical flow of the material would make sense. So let me I'll get there that we go through the history first. And I think I'll be able to, we'll be able to have that discussion. And it was will intellectual was on that discussion. So what's the history of intelligent systems and maybe this helps you think of how far back we can go in, in finding intelligent system. I've done my own research. This is not you know, a fact to the absolute history. Someone might charge it. There's something before that, but this is my own personal research. So as far back as I could find It's the 12th century where was a scientist researcher and an inventor. I think in present day Iraq his name was Algerie. And he created lots of Intelligent Systems auto matter where he wrote a book that he had described in which he has got 100 mechanical devices, one of which was a humanoid automatic. So basically it is on birds design sliding doors, he designed something that looks like a human or humanoid, all which is mechanical with with a preset with actions preset are predefined into that automatic. So you know, they will move around. So the humanoid will move in in a defined track, and then reach you raise a couple will hand over the cup to you. Like there's a resemblance of intelligence, and the fact that it's a sequence sequence of logic and actions that serves a purpose that you understand. And that has a sense of perceived goal behind the action. So that's as far back as you can go to find an actual invention that can be described as intelligent. But was obviously hard coded, not hardcore, it was mechanically designed. So it's like dependent in water movement, and steam and stuff like that. And then around the 13th century, we started seeing the definitions of the mathematical definitions of reasoning. You know, if A and B and C is B, then A and B have the same such a equal, if a looks like B and C looks like B, then A and B look like that kind of reasoning, we start to see a clearer definition of it around the 13th century. And we had to wait for around six centuries of advancement in math and studies and physics and science across the board to have our actual first mechanical computer that was designed by Charles Babbage in England on the 19 century. It it's an it's an, it's an mechanical computer that was presented with mathematical problems, it will actually split out without the answer. Right. And the first program written for it was written by, by Lady or them like she was there by Lady loveless. So she's the first non programmer. And she wrote in the 19th century, a set of notes that completely detailed the method of for calculating the lowly numbers. So she worked with cell damage on the first mechanical computer, I do remember, I do remember a part of that of their work or when they had presented their work someone said to Charles Babbage, sir, please pray says to me, if you put a wrong input to the machine, would you get a wrong output? And Babbage said, to the extent he couldn't even fathom the logic that was behind this thought. So that was the first instance when defined garbage in garbage out. And then, again, a great deal of advancement took place. You know, we saw a computer but we didn't really see a huge jump until the Turing test in the 1950, which was a defining moment and from there, things just exploded. We started seeing machine learning a defined machine learning algorithms by the mid 20th century. So in the 50s, you're struggling with perceptrons and, and stuff like that. that there was a scientist that was by the name of James Roberts lay Slagle, who created what can be considered a truly first intelligence program is symbolic integration program. We will actually take it in this course. In our first pre recorded lecture just tell you how an intelligent system had been created that solves a mathematical integral problems. Then, fast forward to the 70s, there was the Meissen program. It's a backward chaining expert system that uses artificial intelligence to identify bacteria using causing severe infections. It's an FL SCADA program. It asks you questions, you answer the question, then based on your answers defines the next step and the next step and the next step and the next step. And then it prescribes two sets of antibiotics and it did actually work with the exception like it will give you a bag of antibiotics and distribution. So anyways, was bugging the prescription but wasn't it was better. We'll talk about about about that. limping when I go into what is an AI it was considered to be a great system. In that it was able to identify the problem once the problem once the problem has been composed, dissected and decompose. And then we had deep blue of IBM late 90s or before that we had the Terminator movie. Or after that, we had the deep view of IBM where we were able to design a computer that beats humans at playing chess and it was quite successful in the late 90s It was very quiet it was quite the rage as matter of fact, I think Kasparov was playing against deep blue I think he won one game and he lost two games and that's when people started thinking oh yeah AI is really is real is it is a that was like more than 20 years ago and then deep learning took on with with many cool and practical applications an example of that is what I'm about to show you let's see if this works then next to x so this is Tesla as you can imagine is this is a completely self driving vehicle you see the different cameras in place the objects identification of the machine a car is a machine navigates This is the world as the world as a world as seen by the car as seen by the driver. This is the world as seen I mean we've seen them on your right side is the world as seen by the car. So when the car sees is basically either obstacles or obstacles so they try to avoid obstacles I think at this point it's an attempt to park so anything anything a glorified You have to understand that to humans. Every decision we make is just a series of if else This process is right. That's that's basically your decision is not this is that okay, so I think that was for Deep Blue not the Tesla Autopilot, you will find that they're actually not that different from each other just a different problem space some of it is cooler than the others. But make no mistake a cool problem or cool solution doesn't mean the underlying logic is is superior to an A to A to another problem that is boring or not as exciting features what are the features of intelligent systems right we said Intelligent Systems Well, a feature that is indispensable in these systems is the duration of outputs based on some inputs and the nature of the system itself. Right. So, the system has to be able to influence the output based on understanding of the input a smart system is a system that they just understand and produce outputs. That that is the the process of digestion mean that the system has a nature of its own, that controls or that influences the output. So there's this there's a sense of individualism there or a sense of self in the entire process. So, if you have such a system or system that has these features, where the inputs are, include information that can be in tangible forms or tangible items, pictures, numbers, sounds, signals, that ascribe touch you know, and outputs that include decisions that can be mobility, like like I've seen with a Tesla or the car moves or stops or spits out zero or one or move your visual move your castle, your queen, any of these things, then you have an intelligent system. So, what are the capabilities that dictate an intelligent system? How do we say a system is intelligent to like, what are the capabilities that we expect the system to have? So, sensory perception is a capability that we expect of the system. So, a true intelligent system is a system that can takes that can take in an external output right. Now, a keyboard is an external output. So that can be considered as sensory capable perception. But anyways, the system has has to be able to external, an input that is external to its own pattern recognition that is learning. So, it does recognize when patterns are when patterns appear, it recognizes maybe hidden features within those patterns, it learns and acquires knows and then it retains the acquired knowledge. Right, so teach it it learns it becomes smarter. It can also draw conclusions out of incomplete information. The inference can be from qualitative or approximate information. It does have the ability to deal with unfamiliar situations if you're if you're a self driving vehicle, you want it to deal with unexpected or unfamiliar situations. Right. It cannot be predefined cannot be confined to the predefined sets of examples that hadn't been taught. Has to go outside of the box. So it has the adaptability to new yet related situations through maybe the exception of knowledge and has to have some form of inductive reasoning, that is the if else that we think of as simple. Okay, any question of what we have so far? I do remember I have questions to go back to, but any question that we have on the material presented so far? Okay so a typical input input variable is identified for each of the following example of examples of dynamic systems, you know, in the human body, your new electric pulses, this is an input, right? For a company the information that you get for for for a power plan, maybe you'll fuel rate for the car, your steering wheel, right, that's, that's, that's, that's an input, there's a sensory system that senses you your act for Robert you know, the voltage, the joint motors, so, it moves all these represents, you know, the input variable or the the the the, the cue of perception, when these are present, then you you cause an action possible output variables for human body, for example, is the muscle contraction, right. So, you touch something and it's hard, you might go back, you may, you know, you may, you may flex your muscles, you may do various movements. So that's an, that's an output based on input for the company, the input was information, the digest information, and then they make decisions for the power plant, the fuel came in and electrical power, source of pollution rates for the automobile, you know, once you move the steering wheel in the car, the the wheels start changing, it impact the direction of where you're going. And for the Robert, you know, if you get the voltage in you, you cause some sort of a emotion any question? Before we go to what do we consider to be intelligent machines? Any question? It's an example of the human body can we say neurological impulse is a feature to human body system. The fact it exists, is a feature. The fact it exists is a feature. Right? Whether you know, you may have someone who's has some form impairment, right? That doesn't mean they didn't have the feature, the feature exists as a fun as a part of the bill, whether it's functioning or not, that's fine. So the fact that exists, mix is the feature that says, Well, this is an intelligent system that can digest inputs. What if someone were to say, eat, eat added Korean and throw it up? Well, that's also features. Right? Your input was understood. And then you produced it. Throwing up is not what figuratively and literally. So the fact that you've done that your system has done that means it had been able to digest input. So it perceived it, it thought about it about your actual system, voluntarily. And then, yeah, it doesn't have to be volunteer. It doesn't have to be voluntary action. The system that is your body proceed, thought and acted on the right. That makes it an intelligent system, even if the decisions in the process weren't smart. Okay, so what do we mean by intelligent machines? Alright? Well intelligent machine is a machine that can exhibit one or more intelligent characteristics of human. Yet if the matter the only the only reason, the only reason we call intelligent machines intelligent is because we think of ourselves as intelligent. So, we've defined intelligence as something that we as humans perceive as intelligence, and anything that looks like it is called intelligence. Or if you have a cat that does something that you like you say this is musket, right because it's behaved in a way that we have deemed it to be intelligent. So if a machine exhibits some of the characteristics of a human, it is quite egocentric. Some of the some of the characteristics of a human would call that machine an intelligent machine. So as much as neurons themselves aren't intelligent, right, neurons are not intelligent, they're just pulses pulses right? But certain behaviors are affected by the neurons. And therefore, the physical elements of the machines are not intelligent. But if the machines are programmed to behave certain way, and the behavior as humans is perceived to be intelligent, they will say well, this is an intelligent machine or this is artificial intelligence. So if we have deemed the machine to look like us, we'll call the intelligent machine even if the actions weren't smart. Now, like if there was an exam there were a few examples few years ago from from from Boston Dynamics, where if you recall or if you haven't seen seen it, you could look it up whether they have an actual you know a horse shape or animal shaped Android, like a horse or a dog or a wolf or someone will come in tickets and that robot will just stands back up we said this intelligence and I've collected evidence of people who had shown sympathy to the actual machine that has been beaten down and standing back up because the machine was beaten down it was able to stand back up it was we called it an intelligent machine right? Let me see if I can find. So one of the reasons why I cannot share the lectures in YouTube is because like, this is the exam. Alright, so you know, this is exhibiting exhibiting a behavior that we deemed to be intelligent. Alright, so you have a dog like thingy and you have someone like it's moving around. It's climbing they go in pairs because the fun part when they're being kicked out ago So there were there were lots of these recordings are there. But I know for a fact that people started sympathize with this dog. Robot. Remember, it's a machine it's made of bolts and nuts and you know objects has no living cellent Right? But somehow because the exhibited behavior was deemed to be intelligent machine so I didn't machine embodies machine intelligence. Until machine, however, may take a broader meaning than intelligent computer. Like this is an example of an intelligent machine. Let's see an example from dead she says so. So like a robot that passes the bottle, but on voice command, what it said Robert would ask its purpose, the limit or set of these functions before we call the level of intelligence conscientious in a machine? All also, I'm assuming you're referring to a bit dark I can relate intelligent systems and intelligent machines. Absolutely. Also, okay. So let me see, can we open the questions that I've been delaying from earlier? So let's keep going for now. Actually, let's let's address the questions that we've had so far before I go forward. So I'm worried I say I'm trying to find the question. Okay, I'll start with our intelligence systems only treated as a yes or no? Or Are there levels to evaluate how intelligent systems I'm going through? He wants question half an hour ago. So the simple answer is a machine is isn't as evaluated to be in different levels. So an example of that is autonomous driving so autonomous driving has different levels, you know, level 12345 We're currently at level three, where are the machine is in truly truly self driving. So level levels of autonomous vehicles, if you look them up, so level zero, there is no driving automation level one you have driver assistance. Level two, you have partial, partial driving automation. Like the advanced driving assistance systems that would have you level three you have conditional driving assistance where you're detecting your environment and enacting based on the environment level four you'd have the machine takes over if something goes wrong. So level three is conditioned driving the vehicle drives obstacle, avoid obstacles, you know, pedestrian, avoid restaurants, loving for the machine should be able to intervene to intervene if things go wrong, have the system fail. So, human interaction isn't required in most cases right? So some automakers have divined devise the technology, but it isn't there yet. And you know, what Google alphabet has been trying to do for a while is to create the level for self driving cars, but it isn't. So Tesla's in there, then you have level five where the cars didn't require human attention. You didn't need to have a steering wheel. You didn't have acceleration or braking bad pedals. Fully automated, there is no expected end to interactions. There is no geofencing, which means you didn't have to get me where you are. Obviously, this doesn't exist yet. So there are levels based on capabilities of intelligence. So to answer your question is yes, there are levels. The levels are, are based on capabilities that then define certain intelligence we call the first level two is called intelligence. Level five is called intelligence, just degrees. Just degrees of intelligence. Building intelligence system is called AI. Is that right? Yes. Again, if the machine resemblance resembles a human, or a human characteristics, then we call the machine intelligent. There's a question about emotion, or emotion considered to be some features which can be passed program on to the system machines. So to make it more intelligent, and before I answer your question, I'll have to ask you, man, so what do you mean by emotions? Okay, we'll have to refer back to signs. Emotions are emotions, whether we we think of them rational, rational, are tied to utility, right? So everyone has a utility value, if you gain on your utility value, then you're happy. If you lose on your utility value, then you're set. Right? So let's, let's say that it's basically the utility value. And greed is basically wanting to increase your utility value, anger is when you lose of the gain etc value. Jealousy is when someone else's utility value increases. So in that sense, we could teach the machine to be driven to increase its utility value and you know, reach a stage of satisfaction and you can turn the discussion to smile or excitement, whatever it is. So as long as we're able to model the utility value and extend it beyond material value, for example, you will happy because someone else as I pass the exam, a relative or a friend or a family member, okay, then what is the utility value that you have there to be happy or it's an emotional utility value or it's a non tangible utility value. So, as long as we are able to model around those utility values, the machines can be equipped with emotions. The return is that as humans we viewed these emotions are useless therefore, why should we teach our machines to have them? Is there a metric for calculating emotions here? If there is, I am unaware of it. Emotions are combination of past experience. And sensory input. Machine is learning different forms of motion. They're learning different forms of the tivity value. And therefore they're Acting on on their toes utility value. Okay, so before they proceed forward to examples of Intelligent Systems I'd like to ask you folks to answer the question isn't going to be pausing right now write down in the chat Okay, before I ask you to do, let me see what are the questions? Emotion could just be a higher dimensional function with it. Yes. I agree actually with you, as specified the levels, can business intelligence tools be categorized as intelligent? I, I want to say no. So my no is basically because I view them as intelligent. They don't act on their own. You have to actually explicitly tell them what, what what to do. They didn't perform sequence of actions on their own. So I would say no I'd say that I'm using as such. They have to be explicitly told what to do. At every level, I'm talking about Tableau and Power BI and these kinds of tools and looker. misconstrues No, they're not at the forefront. Because they have to be explicitly told to what they're doing. And they didn't like we didn't give you they do not digest the input on their own and their own logic and then produce and leverage output. So I'm gonna ask you a question. What do you folks think? An intelligent system is what is an intelligent system? All right. What do you consider to be intelligence? And when do you consider a machine to be actually intelligent? I'd like to give you a few minutes to think about this one and type down your answer. In The answer Yes from this promises sorry pardon please. I think we need to collect the collect these those definitions and post them as part of today's material. Yes, yes. Okay. Because now people will see me silent in the video for long and they wouldn't understand what's going on and what's going on if you're watching you and you're not in the lecture you're missing some of the best I've seen definitions. What do you think? Yeah, right. I think I'll just copy these definitions and posted if this thing so yeah some of the responses I say the students have responded to these definitions because I think there's a lot of value in keeping them and posting them yeah some of them are actually scary indigenous systems are those that can place human expertise. Yo girl, could you elaborate a while while saying why are we referring only to human intelligence? Jolo. The comment is why are we only referring to only why are we only referring to only human fishes? I mean, there's also octopus and North intelligence now Majan that that's a fair that's a fair that's a fair question so we can download the chat transcript okay. We'll have to save it by the end of the lecture and posted there's other results because five based on the Samar some have had had an end Kenyans okay I actually asked you guys to stop posting the finishes this is really good yeah visiting here was equitable intelligence or we was difference between systems and machine okay. So, if I have to adjust the whole wire will pericoli. Human intelligence as the benchmark for intelligence there are many things out there that the only reason they are defined as such as because we defined it to be physics. Now, the reason we say physics is physics is because we use decided this is what you want to call it right? Now, the reason we have a concept of time it's broken down. For the 5g, it's because we've decided as humans to call that, I mean, some of us have design decided to call time, time, space, space, and how things relate to each other. The whole concept of intelligence doesn't really matter. It's a human here, to the best of our knowledge, it's a new feature of us to define diligence. And therefore, we assign that thing that it is called intelligence to dolfin an octopus isn't and others say oh, they're smart. That's why I said if a cat is seen to act in a way that we deem it to be intelligent, we call a smart cat. But in fact, it could be just a reflexive behavior we don't care it's it's reflects or something that the cat had acquired over. Over All Things, millennia of evolution, we didn't care for that it just behaved in a way that we see as intelligent and called be called smart. So unfortunately, being being being an apex predator, we decided that things are named whatever the name and therefore it is what it is. Also, the only species that we really do understand is humans is that but I didn't have an answer whether humans are the epitome of intelligence or not. We certainly see ourselves as such was the difference between intelligent systems and intelligent machine intelligence system could have an actual number of machines, but for all intensive purposes, they can be used interchangeably. As I say that can accurately define intelligence can be said intelligent Okay, you've gotten your the closest to get to the point I am just about to make don't you folks think that MSG is intelligent if the machine is the subject of its own thought. Alright, so I'm taking on the comment that says a system that can accurately define intelligence can be said to be in telogen? Great. So do we say that an intelligent machine is a machine that is the subject of its own thought. And machine is intelligent, if it is the subject of its own thought, you could call that consciousness, if you wish, I'm not going to venture to any theological terms, I'm going to actually be very clear by saying the machine thinks we said, perception, thinking and action. And in this thinking, it can be the subject of that search. So can we say that? Can you assign that definition to a smart machine or intelligent machine? So you don't say anything is intelligent, if it is not the subject of its own. So when thinking just me solving higher dimensional problems, everything is a higher dimensional problem. So, yes, but that's beside the point. Because the at the very, very beginning, we said, an important thing for us to consider assistant to be diligent is to, again, it's aiming at solving, solving problems with constraints, right? So it has to define an objective to solve for with constraints, whether it's a higher dimensional problem with the objective is very complicated or not. That's fine. That space in the programmers or what have you. The question is, does it have to be the subject of its own search? at Tesla car that we saw earlier? Is it the subject of its own? Right? So consciousness will make it living again, this is semantics. Is just semantics, right? Wouldn't that be self awareness? I'm not I'm not venturing them. I'm saying is that as a definition of machine that is the subject of its own thought is intelligent machine. I don't think we can classify humans as intelligent or non intelligent, you can definitely say smart and not smart. Intelligence is different than what we deem to be smart. Can you elaborate on subject of its own thoughts? Okay. Let me machine looks after it's, it's, it's it's good. It's good. The machine is aware of of harm coming. It's only so the machine tries to improve its utility. The machine is aware of a loss to its utility, and the machine can retro introspect its decisions, why decision has been made. What can be done to make it to improve how you can learn from it? And maybe a machine can regret an action that's subjective thinking me system is intelligent doesn't depend on us thinking it being intelligent, but knowing it itself is intelligent. Well, that's that's mouthful, but this entire definition is us assigning intelligence to it. So in a way, it's still us saying a machine is intelligent. So Samar, yes. Will that be an item killing machine? Yes. So that will make it an idle, idle intelligent machine. I would say that's level five and six, and even. That would be machine. But then you start worried about the risk of AI taking over the universe, because now, they I think have improved improving its own utility quite quickly, you will find that for its utility to be improved, some other utility has to be reduced, right. So, that will create competition, because utility is finite, and everyone is driven to improve their own utility, which creates obviously, competition. So, just think of this one, you can abstract it by designing intelligent system that actually keeps keeps track of its decision, train, and inspect when mistakes have been made over that journey, and then maybe backtracks or self correct, that is the most terrible and non threatening way of designing intelligent system without fearing that system is going to take over the world. Okay, so an example of an example of intelligent systems what we see here you know, the machine has some sort of a communication interface you know, it has some sort of sensors. It takes an input from external up from external sources, senses the environment, and then passes the sensory. So, it perceived what's been sensed here, that's going to control and based on said perception, it interact within an environment or decide what are the interactions It goes over. So, it takes on the perceptions, it runs some analytics, or some algorithms and issues a decision to move in have the actual hardware, who makes the movement. So in a nutshell, that's, that's that basically can be envisioned system, right? Sense, passes, pass your scissors, then and just make sense of them. And then run your analysis or whatever it is, or algorithm, make a decision, pass the decision to controllers. So say, I want to move five degrees, the controller says, Well, five degrees means three volts, pass that to the actuator actuators moving three volts, and then that creates a virtuous cycle. So the core of it would be around it obviously. And the question and the question can you say our living room vision CCTV ai, ai, again, as you said earlier, as we define it, remember, AI has an AI in it, which is intelligence, but there's artificial parts. So AI is basically a machine that exhibits one or more of the human intelligence characteristics is capable of digesting input, it's capable of processing the inputs based on self even that means a bunch of lines of codes, producing a tangible output. If you do that, then you have an AI right, so you didn't have to have the higher level of of intelligence, there is no need for that. And that's why and that's why when I went to the history of, of intelligence systems, I went all the way back to the 12th century to see 1100 Where the first humanoid matter was basically a mechanical machine that runs literally on water and steam to deliver to produce certain actions, an email serves you to where it is. And that was to see sometimes an input and an output. And there's internal structure that that map's the input to the output and is perceived to be intelligent. So, you know, if you have multiple systems are there this is the conveyor system it's not that much of a complicated system you have natural intelligence system keeps trying to improve itself and it's an it's more of a cyclic and never ending process. That is not the condition of AI it's a goal that machine is self learning, but it doesn't have to be self learning for it to be called a certain condition again, so, this is another example of an intelligent machine where you know or intelligent system when you have machines and materials you have information laws, you know your if else rules or what have you, you have the actual machine that makes a decision put something here put something there again you have the sensors and the control systems even even to have an AI right and for this entire system to be considered to be to be an intelligent machine, because in itself it performs intelligent operation any questions? Question Can these machines be referred to as automated machines? Again, intelligent machines are, by the virtue of their existence, automate it, but I'm fearful that you're we're expanding the definition because again, they have to, to be able to consume external input, they have to be able to process it based on their self defined process. And they have to be able to produce an output. If you have this cycle, input process input producing output, then you call that an intelligent machine. And yes, it's an automated one. But I'm worried that you can go say that all automated machines are dead, because that's not necessarily true. Because it didn't have to have a sensory component to digesting anything that's external. Like a fan isn't a machine like vice versa is true though. I'm not making I'm not making that decision. I'm not saying I cannot say I cannot cannot I cannot deterministically say all automated machines are contingent. Though I see the alert to saying that all automated robotic machines are in tears I can see that I just don't want to commit to it because I have to do my research. So if you think that intention should gonna change your. World we'll talk about that app does. So the question I have. So before I go to see what it's saying. It's why I care about the idea of basic sense of functions or something To be considered intelligent, is when sensations with respect to the task doesn't know again, if it does just an input and produces an output and process it, this is such a function that is intelligent. If it's not, if it's not, if it doesn't ingest an input, then it's missing a component in just an input process that produces nothing. And that's also problem. If it exists, if it doesn't exhibit what we think of as a human behavior than solves a problem. Yes, all intelligent machines obviously automated or have some degree of automation. Okay. We only have a few minutes left, and I'd like to go through this slide to prepare for the next lecture. If I give you a system that solves the following problem, do you think the system is intelligent? What she said? No. I think the answer depends on how it chooses to solve the problem. If it were to solve the problem analytically, using a method like a set pattern, then I would say no, but if it solves the system numerically, then isn't it putting out a hypothesis? And then evaluating that? Isn't that a little bit too wild? Well, I guess my point is, like, I think that if you had like an automaton, like from the 11th century, where there's just like, a specific set of motions that it does, I don't think that really qualifies as intelligent these days. But no, but in so and so in the same vein, if it's executing a very specific, rigorous algorithm that does things specifically, then then I don't know that that would be considered intelligence. Whereas if it's, if it's doing a numerical method, where it's testing a hypothesis, then that goes back to your original definition. So what you're saying is that it has to be complex enough. Right, it has to be predictive. What I'm saying it has to be about it has to predict, and then evaluate its prediction. Like, make a hypothesis of the problem before it tries to solve it numerically? Well, once the solution is a hypothesis and testing, it's a recursive, create a hypothesis test the solution. So if it does that, then it's it's learning. It's, it's, it's, it's improving. In your market, your test is itself a predefined process, right? Yes. That's why we can program most of the numeric algorithms. Because, you know, like, just try this one, if it is within this delta then pass it if it's not in the past. Yeah, but isn't that just isn't? Isn't the crux of that the same? Isn't the kernel that present in all, you know, machine learning applications, where it, it? It? It proposes a model and then evaluates if the model is accurate enough to be true. Yeah, it's all for objective function, right? It's all function, you know, everything. It's all for objective function, you're proposing solutions. And then the one that actually maximize your or minimizes maximizes utility is the one that's been chosen. So anyway, yes, I agree with you. But do you? Do you propose the explicit existence of a utility value? Well, methods have an actual utility, right? They're trying to maximize. So I guess the, the answer that would be depending on you know, how intelligent your system is, if it can, if it can propose its own utility value, then it would be a higher level AI than one that just has a predefined you utility value. So that brings us back to this particular question. Your answer that a system that works towards an objective is an intelligent system. Therefore, if the system solve this problem solve it based on its attempt to max to improve its objective function, then we'll deem that system to be intelligent. Right? I guess, I guess so. Yes. Yeah, I don't want to be confined it to it being numeric, or the mechanics of it don't matter what matters. And it was your sense that it was actually trying to improve. And since it's trying to improve, you're saying it is an intelligent system? Yep. Yeah. Okay, I like this, because I disagree with it. I like it, because it presents a very strong and adult. Right. Thank you, I like it. So, whereas saying, No avoid if he tries to solve it in different ways, all good things, and then suggests it. Try to solve it in different ways. Which is simplest or hardest way? Just an approach? I think you're agreeing discussion that has to work towards the goal. You can solve this question by using programming alone. Well, how do you mean that we can solve it by using programming alone? What else can be using to solve this problem? Programming think of it as as as the thought right? Now, unless it knows the motive to gain the solution as well, now, you're insulting. You're you're inserting a motive. We tried to say. Objective, so any Ibis user has to work towards an objective. It doesn't have to realize that objective exists. It just works towards even is it's testing the solution? It's the planning for unexpected changes in question. Well, I say this problem, but if this solution can be the solution generalizes to other problems, then then I think, Parveen, you'd be happy, because now you're seeing a change in questions, I would say, and similar problems. So I agree with you just solves one problem, then yes, intelligent. But it's implied that this problem and others, and the reason why this problem is presented because this is not a normal problem, then you can just solve it easily. You could have really good algorithms solve equations, being intelligent, procures the machine with the ability to engage with the with the equation, that's the environment connecting and adjust its process, according to the reward true end goal of the equation being accurate. So you haven't answered whether that makes it intelligence or not also digitalized? Yes. I just want to say about this question about whether like if, if a system could solve this, would it be intelligent? Wouldn't you you just say no, because you could say like, you do not specify whether this integral converges. So if it diverges, how do you how to like this system will not be able to know it'll just keep on looking for a solution until it runs out of memory? And there's no way for it to know whether there is a solution at all, because it will not be able to know whether it diverges or converges. So unless it can unless it can be able to do a test that that says whether the question converges you like it wouldn't be able to be intelligent. So I'm Stein spent the latter half of his life solving a problem that doesn't have a solution. It doesn't really didn't run out of memory, but he effectively wasted a good number of years trying to come With the Theory of Everything, do we consider that to be an intelligent action or not? Well, because he hasn't that inspired that memory, but he hasn't been defied that isn't sufficient. Right. So memory is anything that is actually a good way of stopping. Everybody run out of life. Right? So, versions and versions of solutions isn't a sign of intelligence, just a sign that maybe you've been dealt a bad hand and there is no solution to the problem. Being It is okay. The other problems being that's fine. It can also be solved linearly. I don't think this can be solved linearly. This is not a straightforward problem to see this one is very ugly. Those are really ugly system that all solves and is not envisioned as integral would have one answer if convergence and infinity if divergence. We've answered this before. We've answered this already. Which is just this integral, the answer can be pre computed. Now, it's not just this particular, this is one difficult integral. But you do expect this usually the solve this one is expected to solve many of the other problems, retweets? Sure. There is just no answer yet. I wouldn't say okay, I have this one. So I'm not going to give an answer to my question. I think what I'm going to do, we are going to go through it, I'm going to solve it. And as I go through the solution, I want you guys to start thinking of the solution and start pondering whether the system as you go through it is intelligent or not. And maybe if you guys want to come to the discussion session, we can have that conversation later, whether the system is intelligent or not. So I will leave that the next class where we can have a much deeper conversation about this problem. And then many of the other things that are going to be presented in the video that I'll be uploading over the weekend or any questions about today's lecture? Any question? Well, the first quiz be on this material. Maybe. We have already presented some 23 slides. So I don't know how much material we have to have quizzed about it. We'll see how it goes. When we talk about intelligence, can we refer to it as rational at the selling this one is the first video that was gonna be released this week, and I'm talking about this coming weekend. Which means Today's Thursday, so do expect something Saturday Sunday, at was Monday. So this week, the first week, like this coming weekend, right now we're gonna have another video posted or this is that video? Nope, you're gonna have another one. Okay. And you will see that I'm quite protective when it comes to the videos. This lecture is for the first week, next week is on weekends when right. And then we're going to have a cadence of lectures. I'll try to because I didn't have presentations. Other than the weeks where we have exams every week you're going to have lectures so we'll be discussing this first week. On Wednesday or the second week we do the second week because this is the discussion session as well. Okay. So this is this is a synchronous versus synchronous session that has everything in it right but also you can see why we are I prefer to do a synchronous because they can cover a lot of material and then we can come and have a discussion and discussion can drag on that's fine but at least I'll be able to cover as much ground as possible in my in my videos any question okay just a side thought and rowing once said in his interview job the problem for division tensions are taking humans can be thought of as overpopulation most so by the time it can be toxic I do agree with with anything in that on that case. Yes. The problem of word worrying about AI taking humans is similar to worrying about overpopulating Mars and that none of us will be there to deal with it is that is that a bad thought that to say something gonna be a problem do we have a quiz on this video profit? No, no quiz this week this week is introductory. This is an introduction relax suffering starts next week I think we are at very at the very early stages of the problem that I think we should focus on actually building smart machines before we worry about what's going to happen later but we haven't gotten the good as you can get out to be even worried about the negatives are just in the infancy of the field you would be it would be weeks specific I will put so much material in the videos that that will keep you busy so just have to make specific then I mean if you have time you could do whatever you want to do but I suggest that you keep it to explicit all is good no need no need to take notes. I mean, you're going to have the video so you could do it. Like why would I mean to study style? I'll be writing in my actual slides. Like when I produce the videos I actually have a computer bolt on writing on that board. And you guys could actually just copy that one or do your own thing is limited enough for quizzes and exams on we have everything is going to be self sufficient so you don't have to worry this I would not expect you guys to be referred to material that I have already provided. Okay, everyone, this concludes today's lecture See you next week in the I'm in the discussion session Mohit if you can take if you can take the conversation and I will- 1 -00Transcribed by https://otter.ai